---
sidebar_position: 23
---

# Whats New In Ignition 81 - Video Transcripts

This page contains transcripts from the whats-new-in-ignition-81 video course.

## Overview

These transcripts are automatically generated from the [whats-new-in-ignition-81 Course](https://inductiveuniversity.com/courses/ignition/whats-new-in-ignition-81/8.1) on Inductive University.

:::info
Generated on: 6/9/2025, 5:12:51 PM
Source URL: https://inductiveuniversity.com/courses/ignition/whats-new-in-ignition-81/8.1
:::

## Video Transcripts

### 1. 8.1.0 - Perspective Workstation Video at Inductive University

:::tip Video Link
Watch the video: [8.1.0 - Perspective Workstation Video at Inductive University](https://inductiveuniversity.com/videos/810---perspective-workstation/8.1)
:::

<details>
<summary>View Transcript (8 paragraphs)</summary>

**[00:00]** [00:00]
                                    In this lesson, we'll take a look at perspective workstation. Workstation as a standalone application, designed to launch perspective sessions using an embedded web browser. To begin with, we'll have to make sure perspective workstation is installed. Starting with ignition version 8.1 you can get perspective workstation directly from the gateway's web interface. So here I have my gateway open, I'm on the home section here, and there's this little perspective workstation area. I'll go ahead and click the download perspective workstation button, which takes us to a separate page. From here there should be a big download button which will download an installer that you can run, which will install perspective workstation on your local system. And again, this is very similar to the designer launcher. So I won't show you the installation steps. You can just run through the installer or check out the designer launcher video if you wanted a walk through. But we'll skip over that for this lesson here. And instead you can see that I do have perspective workstation. Already I have a desktop icon ready to go.

**[01:00]** [01:00]
                                    So let me double click to open this up. And once you finish installing it on your end, you should see a window that looks something like this, though more appropriately, you won't have these applications already. So I'll go ahead and edit. Let me delete these here. We'll add them back in. So yours probably looks something like this on a fresh installation. Now you might also get a prompt asking you if you wanted to add applications from available gateways, which you can go ahead and opt into. In my case, I'll go ahead and click the add application button here, where you'll see a separate window appear. And from here, we can see a list of all of the detectable gateways that workstation can find. And we do have some tabs at the top here. So if you've been adding applications from other gateways, you'll see them in this previously used list, or you can just type in the URL for the gateway if you wanted to go to a specific one that wasn't being broadcast for some reason. Now in my case I'll go ahead and stick to my local system here. I'll select that gateway and click the select gateway button. And then we'll get a project listing from all the available projects on that gateway. I'll just add both of these and click add applications.

**[02:02]** [02:02]
                                    And there we are. We have our two applications now, or however many you added. If you need to add more applications later, the add applications button is in the lower right hand corner. If you wanted to launch one of these, you can simply select and then click open application or just double click on the little box here. And we can see it's opening up and there we are. We're now running in our session. So let me resize this a little bit. And there you are. So we can see that we have a Perspective Session running inside of its own window. It's not using some of your more consumer grade or common web browsers, right? So it's not using like Chrome or Firefox or anything. So this is ideal if you wanted to run a perspective session on a plant floor and you didn't want to have all the normal trappings of a web browser like bookmarks and plugins and the address bar that anyone could type into stuff like that. Looking at features here. So I do have a couple of buttons. I went ahead and I put together before this recording. So, let's go and take a look at the full screen button. If I press that, then workstation goes full screen. If I click on windowed, it goes back to a windowed mode.

**[03:04]** [03:04]
                                    And then of course I have toggle. So I can kind of dance back and forth between the two. Now to actually talk about what that's doing here, I'm going to switch over to my designer. And I have the view we were just looking at open here. If I were to start deeply selecting down into these buttons here, and we would take a look at what's going on on the events side of things. So I do have a scripting component event here. And if I scroll down here, we can see I'm using this system.perspective.workstation toKiosk function. So workstation does get its own special functions. That's why it has the extra workstation at the end there. So if you try to call this in a perspective session that isn't running in workstation so just one that's running in a browser or the mobile app, these functions won't work. So this script here is using the toKiosks function, which puts workstation into a full screen mode. While the windowed button here is using the toWindow function, which puts workstation back into a windowed mode. Now this toggle button down here, which I'll switch over to and start deep selecting down.

**[04:02]** [04:02]
                                    If we take a look at this, instead of using a script action here, I'm actually using a workstation mode. So there's a new action we added here, which more or less gives you the same thing. Allows you to switch between the full screen and the windowed mode, or in this case I have it set to toggle. So it just kind of bounces back and forth every time it triggers. Now the next thing I did want to talk about here is this link. So I have this Link component up here. And it's actually set to tabs. So the idea being when a user clicks on this, it opens a tab. Now as you saw from earlier, workstation doesn't really have a concept of tabs. There weren't any tabs running in there. So what happens in this scenario? So let's go ahead and launch it again so I can take a look. And if I click that link, you get a whole lot of nothing. So in this case, nothing's happening, but that's actually intentional. So if we take a look at the application that was added into workstation here. I'll go ahead and click on the little kebab or triple dots there. And I'll click on manage. And over here, we have this tab slash window links property.

**[05:05]** [05:05]
                                    So this determines what should happen if the user does something that would normally open a new tab in their web browser. So in this case, we can block it. But we do have some options. So we can do in window, which means, okay, go ahead and just navigate to that from within workstation. We also have system browser, which would instead open up the native or the default browser on your operating system and look at that address. So if I were to try that out real quick. And if I try that again. Looks like Firefox is opening. And you can see it's navigating to that page. So you do get some flexibility in regards to what you want to do when we try to, or when the user tries to open up a tab. Now let's take a look at the managing these applications again. So going back to the application, click the kebab menu, we'll go to manage. And I'll switch over to page configuration. And from here, you can set the application to run in a sort of a multi monitored mode, if you will. Not really a mode, but you can actually have multiple windows open up when you launch this application.

**[06:09]** [06:09]
                                    Now heading back into my designer here, I switched back to the landing page or the homepage here. You can see that I do have a separate page setup, a page2, in addition to the default or the root page. So what we could do, just because this is kind of hard to demonstrate when I'm only recording a single screen here. How about display one here? We'll go to page two, so I can do a "/page2". And then display two, we'll just go to that root. So just slash. Now you can figure out, which display is what. There is an Identify Displays button here, which when I press it, we can see that you are looking at my display 1. And you're also seeing three displays here because workstation does detect how many screens or displays are available. So it just so happens that the system I'm recording on does in fact have three displays. But we won't do anything with that third one. So I'll go ahead and click okay, here. We'll double click the launch. And notice that has a little multi-monitor icon there just letting me know that this application is configured to run with multiple displays.

**[07:11]** [07:11]
                                    All right, so we see, we have one instance here. We have that second page. Let me switch over. And you can see, here we are. We have that first one we were looking at earlier here. So you can have an application configured in such a way that when you run it, it does open up onto multiple displays, which is very, very useful. All right. And that about wraps up the workstation video. As again, it's very similar to the Designer Launch if you've used that before, but it does have a couple of unique configurations, like the multi-monitor capability, as well as the built-in sort of support with the component actions and the system functions.

</details>

---

### 2. 8.1.0 - Power Chart Overview Video at Inductive University

:::tip Video Link
Watch the video: [8.1.0 - Power Chart Overview Video at Inductive University](https://inductiveuniversity.com/videos/810---power-chart/8.1)
:::

<details>
<summary>View Transcript (7 paragraphs)</summary>

**[00:00]** [00:00]
                                    In this lesson we're going to discuss the Power Chart, a charting component in the perspective module designed to work with tag history data that does a multitude of built in features and customization options. We will be devoting a few videos to these components, in this one we'll be focusing on the basics of using the component and configuring a few basic options. To get started, I've got a flex container here and I'll find my way into the component palette and drag over a Power Chart component. Then I'll go into the position properties and set the grow value to one, just so that it takes up all available space in my view here. Now on the left-hand side in my tag browser I have a handful of Sine tags, which I've set up tag history for already. And if I want to show them on my Power Chart the process is pretty simple. I'm just going to put my designer in preview mode, and then I'm going to click the Tag icon in the top left corner of the chart select through into my historical tag provider and then pick which tags I'd like to see.

**[01:06]** [01:06]
                                    I can Control + Click to select multiple. So how about I just select the first three here, and then when I'm done I'll click Add Selected Tags at the bottom and just like that we have some tag data in our chart. So now that we have some tag pens let's talk about some of our charts special features. I'll begin by collapsing my little side panel here using the icon in the top right. Now, our chart area is divided into a few different sections in the main area we have our actual chart data with a time axis along the bottom and a y-axis showing actual values. Below the chart we have a little table showing some aggregate data for different pens things like the Current Value on the pen, the Minimum Value in our charts, the average value and so on. We can also hover over different pens in that section to manage the pen or remove it from our charts. And across the top we have several different configuration options for the chart, from the left, we have that handy button we've used earlier to add more pens to the chart, and next to that we have a time range selector for the chart.

**[02:05]** [02:05]
                                    If I click on that section, it opens up a little selector that allows us to show a time range like the last 30 minutes or eight hours or two days or a historical range which allows us to choose any two dates we want as the start and end date for the chart. Now, as we consider this setting and other configuration settings it's important to keep in mind that so far I've been working entirely in preview mode here. So this is all exactly how you'd see it as a user in a real perspective session. One of the key features of the Power Chart is that the vast majority of the available chart properties are built into the component interface. For instance this time selector we've just seen is basically just controlling some underlying time properties which we can find in the config property at the top specifically. The other configuration options we'll look at here are similarly tied to properties behind the scenes. Occasionally you will find some properties like the mode settings we're about to get into that have some extra options in the property editor but we've tried where possible to give the user total control over how their chart is configured right from the session.

**[03:08]** [03:08]
                                    The other thing to note about this setup is that, however my chart looks in the designer is how it I'll look by default in a real session. So adding in pens, configuring a time range and so on, will actually affect what the user sees initially when they open up this view. So with that said, let's take a look at some of the other icons on our chart here. The first little grouping of four icons on the right-hand side is for controlling the chart mode, so to speak. The chart mode effectively determines how the user can interact with the main chart area. The first chart mode, which is the default is Pen and Zoom, which allows the user to zoom into the chart, using the scroll wheel on their mouse and then drag side to side to view different portions of the time range clicking the Expand icon in the top right restores the original range. If I select the second mode that one is called X Trace, which allows the user to hover over the chart, to see x values at the time associated with the mouse cursor's position.

**[04:04]** [04:04]
                                    If I click the mouse, it'll actually leave an X Trace marker at the specified location, and I can place multiple markers, if I'd like. To remove the markers I click the little More icon with three dots on the right-hand side, which has a clear X Traces option. Next step, we have Range Brush which allows us to revisit our table running along the bottom. As we've established that table is showing us aggregate data for the chart, but while I'm in Range Brush mode I can drag across specific chart ranges like so and see the same aggregate data for just that time range. I can resize that brush or drag it around, and I can even create additional brushes by dragging across a separate time range. If I want to get rid of a range, I just click the Trash can icon next to it table. So let's just clear out our brushes. Finally, the very last mode is Annotation mode. This mode allows us to make notes that are attached to individual data points on our chart, so for instance, I can click on a point here and say, "My note," and then hit Save, that'll save the annotation to the tag history tables in the database, specifically the annotations table.

**[05:16]** [05:16]
                                    So that annotation will be shown to anyone who pulls up this tag history data. And on a final note, I can hover over the annotation to modify or delete it. Now, besides the Chart modes, there are some other properties along the top here, one is Full screen, which will hide the table and icons from the chart and allow the chart to take up a little bit more space. Next to that is the Settings icon which will allow us to dive a bit deeper into our chart content configuring Tag, Pens, Axes, and Subplots. We'll leave this section alone for a later video, but I will note that the columns tab here allows us to customize what is displayed in the Pen table across the bottom as well as what is shown when we create one or more range brushes in Range Brush mode. So the very last icon here is this More icon which just allows us to export the chart data as a CSV file or print the chart to a printer or a PDF file.

**[06:07]** [06:07]
                                    This wraps up our basic discussion of the Power Chart components. It's a great way to chart history data across the perspective platform.

</details>

---

### 3. 8.1.0 - Historian Simulator Video at Inductive University

:::tip Video Link
Watch the video: [8.1.0 - Historian Simulator Video at Inductive University](https://inductiveuniversity.com/videos/810---historian-simulator/8.1)
:::

<details>
<summary>View Transcript (6 paragraphs)</summary>

**[00:00]** [00:00]
                                    In this lesson we'll take a look at the historian simulator which is a simulator provider that's built into the tag historian module. This simulator is unique in that you don't need any sort of tags or external connections to retrieve some data from it. You can simply provide it a path and it will return a result set for you. To use it we first need to create an instance of the provider, so on our gateway here under the config section, I'm going to scroll on down and under tags, I'll click on history. Now I do have some history providers already configured but we'll ignore those 'cause I'm not going to use them in this video, instead, I'm going to click on the create new historical tag provider link. And from the list here, let's go ahead and click on simulator, I'll click next and we can give this a name here. So how about just simulator, I'll then go ahead and click the create new historical tag provider and that's all we have to do on the gateway side, we're actually ready to start using this new provider.

**[01:05]** [01:05]
                                    So I'll switch over to my designer here and really you can use this provider anywhere in ignition that can request tag history queries or call them. So tag history bindings, for example, in Vision or Perspective, I'm not going to show you all of the different places since there's quite a bit, instead I'm just going to focus on the reporting module here, just because it gives me a lot of room to show off the feature. Now I have a report here, I have a blank time series charts, It doesn't have any data, so let's go ahead and populate this with some data. I'll switch to the data tab here and I'll hit the little plus button to add a new tag historian query. And here we do see that we have the simulator and we have a whole bunch of built in historical tags that we can use. We'll talk about the notation in the path here in just a moment, but I think to start with I'll go ahead and I'll grab this ramp tag, drag it over and then I'll play with some of the settings here, I'll go ahead and switch us over to real time, we'll say how about maybe just five minutes and I'll switch the aggregation mode to time weighted average. And I should add the reason I'm making changes to the history settings here is because it makes the resulting data set a little bit easier to talk about, so these aren't like mandatory for using the provider, you can set these to whatever you prefer.

**[02:13]** [02:13]
                                    Now I'll switch over to design here and on my charts, let's go ahead and we'll add our tag history data source as the data key and then I'll grab that little ramp key there. We'll add that as a pen and now we can switch over to preview and We now have some data, now I can see it's doing this repeating ramping behavior and kind of just starts over every so often, it gets close to about a hundred or so. Now if we head back to the data tab here and we look at the path here notice that it does have a couple of pieces of information in the path that kind of stand out really. First of all, everything's delimited by an underscore, next you'll notice some commonalities with our data, our trend was ramping and we see the word ramp here. It peaked around 100 and we see 100 here. Now, if you look at the available historical tags tree here you'll notice one of the entries states function, period, amplitude and resolution. This one tag is an example that points out the various arguments that go into the tag path. So depending on what values you provide these arguments in the path here, the return results set will be modified.

**[03:18]** [03:18]
                                    So to compare it to our tag, function determines what function to use. In our case we're using ramp period is the duration of the function from start to finish, so each peak in our ramp function will be spread across the amount of time specified by this argument. Amplitude is the peak for the function to use, resolution determines how many raw data points will make up the underlying results, we'll look closer at this one later on. Now if I make changes to my path here, say I changed the period to five M or five minutes, and we'll change the peak to 250. I'll switch back to preview and you can see we only get one peak over this five minute period of time and it does peak at 250. They'll also notice that it doesn't start at zero, rather the start here is midway up the peak, to help simulate real world usage, the results don't just initialize with zero here. Instead, the resulting data set acts as if the tag has been changing prior to the requested time range.

**[04:12]** [04:12]
                                    If we were to change the range on our tag history data source, we'd see the earlier points in the day where this fictitious data would have peaked over and over again. Anyways, our path asks for a single peak add 250 over five minute period and you can see that's how the data is being presented. Now let's talk about the final argument in the path, which was resolution. If we look at the XML preview here we see the data starts at row zero. If I scroll to the bottom, we see the final row ends at row 99, so this trend has made up of 100 data points that 100 is actually due to the reporting module. Let's switch back to the data tab, the preview limit here on the right, which has nothing to do with the simulator, this is a setting provided by the reporting module. It's set to 100, so it's restricting the number of rows this query can return. I'll uncheck this just to remove the limit, I'll switch back to preview and we can see we are now at row 999, so 1,000 rows. Now this 1000 row is due to the history settings we have, so if I go back to the data tab, we're using a fixed sample size, so this query is aggregating all of the raw data that the history system has access to for this tag here and bringing it to 1000 points.

**[05:20]** [05:20]
                                    Now, if I were to change this to on change instead, our results that is going to be driven purely by the raw data. Here's where the resolution argument comes into play because this ultimately determines how often a raw data point is generated within the simulator. Right now it's set to one second, so our simulated path will request a raw data point every one second over the specified range, which is five minutes. If we switched back to preview and look at the XML again we see 300 data points, which makes sense in a five minute period, there are 300 seconds. If we go back to data, we can change this from every one second to 200 ms or milliseconds. So if you wanted the raw data to be more granular you can modify the resolution. Back to preview, we can see considerably more rows and we ended up at 1499 or 1500 rows. Now the main benefit of the resolution argument here is that you can get a better idea of how the various aggregation modes and settings will be applied to the results of the query, but that about wraps up the simulator here. As you can see, it's pretty straightforward to use. There is more documentation in the user manual. You can go ahead just search for the historian simulator page, if you wanted to see the full list of all of the functions.

</details>

---

### 4. 8.1.0 - DB Table Historian Video at Inductive University

:::tip Video Link
Watch the video: [8.1.0 - DB Table Historian Video at Inductive University](https://inductiveuniversity.com/videos/810---db-table-historian/8.1)
:::

<details>
<summary>View Transcript (1 paragraphs)</summary>

**[00:00]** [00:00]
                                    In this lesson, we'll take a look at the DB Table Historian Provider, which is a unique provider that takes the content of tables created outside of the Historian system and exposes their contents to things like Tag History queries. Now, to begin with, we first need a database table. I have this DB Database Connection Provider here. And inside of it, I have not one, but two tables. So, I created two tables, and using MySQL Workbench here, create a table_a and table_b. So, table_a has a couple of rows, and table_b, also has a couple of rows. Both tables also have at least one DATETIME column. If you're curious how I configured these, here are the settings I use. You can pause the video if you wanted to look a little bit closer at them. But that's not super important. What's important is that, they do have some rows, and we're going to go ahead and take the contents of both tables and we're going to expose them to different bindings and components within our project. So, we have a Database Connection with some tables. To use this provider, first, we need to create an instance of the provider. So, on my gateway here, under Config, we can scroll on down, and under Tags, I can go to History. And, let's go ahead and create an instance of this provider. So, I'll click the Create New Historical Tag Provider link. And from the list of options, we'll select the DB Table Historian, or in this case, the first one in the list. I'll click Next. And let's give this provider a name here, so, how about just "DB_TH". Now, aside from the name here, the only other property you really need to worry about, is this Data source property. So, you need to effectively tell this provider which of your database connections it should be looking at. Now, my case it is in fact, the DB database I want to look at. So, I'll click the Create New Historical Tag Provider button. Okay, we're actually done configuring our provider. Now, we get to try to use it. So, let's go ahead and switch over to our Designer. Now, to start with, I think I'll focus on perspective, so, you can see I'm looking at a view here, and I have a PowerChart selected. Now, what we can do with this new provider is, we can, I'm going to put my Designer to Preview Mode here. And I'll go ahead and start browsing for Tags here on the PowerChart. If you don't see your Historian on there, you can always go ahead and refresh. But looks like I have mine here, anyways. We can go into DB_TH, we can see our two tables. I can go to table_a, and I do want to show the value, I want to trend the value. So, I'll go ahead and select value, I'll click the Add Selected Tags button. And there's our trend. And it was that easy. Although, I did cheat. There is one little thing I did that I should talk about. And that would be the t_stamp column here. The DB Table Historian Provider has limited ability to interpret the meaning behind any given table. To give this feature better interplay with transaction groups, The provider will recognize any column named t_stamp, as the column it should use as the DATETIME for each row. Which is why that first example from table_a worked right away. However, your tables likely won't always have a t_stamp columns. So, let's look at what we can do in those scenarios. Let's go ahead and get rid of this pen here. And, let's take a look at table_b. Now, if you recall table_b actually had a couple of DATETIME columns. So, I had one called time, and then I had more_time. Time is showing 13:00 or 1:00 p.m. times, and more_time is showing 15:00 or three o'clock. So, if we try to add value from table_b here, we actually get a whole lot of nothing. You'll get some errors in the console, but we do see that the PowerChart here does have a new pen. So, we're actually getting an error just because in this case, it doesn't really know which of those timestamp columns to use. Now, let's take a closer look here. Now, this part's kind of specific to the PowerChart here, but really, the key part here is being familiar with how the various features that Ignition that can query Tag History, configure the path to the tag in the History system. So, in this case, the PowerChart will list its pens on the Pen's tab here. If we scroll down here, we do have a little path that leads to the values that are coming from my table. Now, to make this a little bit easier to talk about, I'm actually just going to copy this out, and I'm going to move that text over to something that's a little bit easier for you to see. Now, again, if you've seen these historical paths with the Tag Historian Module, you may be familiar with some of the ideas or the notation here. But in our specific case here, the : and /, sort of delimit different units or different components of this path here. So, if I were to try to make this a little bit more readable. So, the History Provider name is, DB_TH, the table in that provider is, table_b, and then the column from that table that we want to use on this pen here is the column, "value". There's actually more stuff we can add here, it just doesn't add a timestamp by default, but you can actually specify which column is the TIMESTAMP or the DATETIME. So, in this case, I'm going to add a new line, we'll put a :/ down, and if you check the User Manual on the DB Table Historian Provider page. You can search for it, it's also alongside all of the other Tag Historian Provider stuff. There's actually a timestamp component. And, this allows you to just type in the name of the column that's going to be the timestamp for this particular point of data. So, I do have a time column, and we did say time was the 1:00 p.m. times. So, let's try to use that. I'll go ahead and I'll get rid of all those new lines here, and I'll select everything, we'll copy that out, and I will replace that down below. We could have just typed it down here, but easier for me to just copy-paste. I'll click Done, and look at that, we do have a trend that's actually showing again. If I were to try to look at the timestamp here, we can see that it's showing about one o'clock, I was off a little bit with my click there. We can also, of course, go back to those Pen Settings. And we could actually change the end of this little path here, instead of specifying time, that we can change it to more_time. Which should give us the 3:00 p.m. times. And look at that. Great, so really, you just need to be aware that the additional components for these paths exist. Now, let's also just take a look at Vision, just to give you a different interface to kind of show you the same sort of routine. Over here, in Vision, I do have a Power table. If I select it, and head down the Property Editor, I can take a look at the Data property, which we know is where the Power Table gets all the content, or data that's supposed to show inside of it. Let's configure a binding, we'll do a Tag History Binding, and I'll go ahead and refresh this from an earlier take here. But you can see, that we do have our table being basically the same kind of interface we saw earlier with the Power table. I'll go ahead and try to add value over here, but I'll go ahead and just double click, and I will paste in that path we just copy-pasted from earlier, where we're pointing at time, and play around with the real time settings. We'll set it for four hours, I suppose. And there we go. We've got our two, 1:00 p.m. times here. All right, that's going to about wrap it up for this video. Again, I'd highly advise you take a look at the User Manual page just because it does have more information on the various components, but really just modifying that Historical Tag Path is the key piece of information you need to be aware of when using this provider.

</details>

---

### 5. 8.1.0 - Creating OPC Tags - Tag Creator Video at Inductive University

:::tip Video Link
Watch the video: [8.1.0 - Creating OPC Tags - Tag Creator Video at Inductive University](https://inductiveuniversity.com/videos/810---tag-creator/8.1)
:::

<details>
<summary>View Transcript (1 paragraphs)</summary>

**[00:00]** [00:00]
                                    In this lesson we will talk about adding OPC tags through browsing or manually creating them. We've installed Ignition, created some device connections, and now we want to start interacting with some of the data points inside those devices. The Tag Browser here will show all of our available Ignition tags, but we need to create some first. The easiest way to create them is using the Tag Creator. You can open the Tag Creator by clicking on the plus icon in the upper left corner of the Tag Browser, and then selecting browse devices. When you do this you can see the Tag Creator shows up and it's got two sections here. One for the connected devices on the left, which will show all of your connected OPC Servers and allows you to browse into those Servers into any devices that you connected to. On the right you can see a list of all of your existing tags. To add tags, we'll go over to our Ignition OPC UA Server, expand this out, expand into the devices, and then you can see we have all the different devices set up with any tags inside of them. You can even expand all the way down to individual tags. Now, there aren't any values here because we aren't asking for the tag data yet. This is just a tree of all the browsable tags. Now you can add tags to Ignition by dragging tags from the Connected Devices section over to our Tag Provider on the right. Or, you can select them and hit the little icon in the center. I'll take the entire Sim device folder and drag it over, and you can see now it'll show up in the Tag Provider with all of the folders and all the tags inside of it. Once we have all these tags here, I can hit Apply down at the bottom or Okay. Now we can expand the folder in the Tag Browser and we can see all of our live values. These tag values are being fetched in one second rate which is the default for Ignition. We'll talk more about tag group rates in other videos. Now dragging an entire device into Ignition is a bad idea if you don't need all of the tags. Having thousands of tags that are unused will cause additional overhead for your network and devices that isn't necessary. This also means you'll have all the extra tags here in your Tag Browser, which can be cumbersome to work with. Instead, you should only have the tags that you need in your project to keep the workload light. We recommend creating folders and organizing your tags in an easy to understand structure. You can easily add folders to our tag structure in the Tag Browser or in the Tag Creator. For example, if I expand out my Dairy device and look in the Refrigeration folder, you can see that we have a few Towers here. If these are the only tags that we need from this device, then I can simply go to the plus icon in the upper right and click on new folder. I can give this folder a name, something like Towers, and click okay, and then you can see we have a new Towers folder. Now I can select both of my Towers and drag them into this new Towers folder. And you can see they'll show up in the Provider here. Now when I hit Okay or Reply at the bottom you can see that our Towers folder will show up in the Tag Browser, and now we have live values. Now the Connected Device History will show all of your connected devices but not all of the devices support tag browsing. Some Drivers won't and some devices won't. For example, Ignitions ModBus and Siemens Drivers don't support browsing. For those we'll have to manually add tags. Now you can manually add tags in the Tag Browser or in the Tag Creator and it works in the same way. All we have to do is click on the plus icon in the upper right and then click on this new standard tag. Now you can see it adds a tag here, and to modify this blank tag I can double click it or select the little edit icon on the right and then fill in whatever values I want. I'm going to start with a name, I'll call this tag Temp, I'll change my values source to be an OPC type. And then you can see when I select that we now have an OPC Server and an OPC Item Path. For my Server, I'll select the Ignition OPC UA Server, and then for my Item Path all I have to do is type in the path to that particular tag. Now every device type is different and you'll have to know what the Item Path is for your particular device. And there's lots of information in our user manual for all of Ignitions Drivers. Ignition's OPC UA Server requires us to start with a device name in square brackets. So, I'll type in ModBus, with those square brackets. Now because this is a ModBus device I want to read one of the holding registers, but my holding registers are available in Unit 1. So my OPC Item Path should look like something, should look something like this. 1.HR1 will give us Holding Register 1 from Unit 1. Now I can just click commit at the bottom, and then apply, and then you'll see our new temperature tag and we have a live value.

</details>

---

### 6. 8.1.0 - Page Startup Session Event Video at Inductive University

:::tip Video Link
Watch the video: [8.1.0 - Page Startup Session Event Video at Inductive University](https://inductiveuniversity.com/videos/810---page-startup-session-event/8.1)
:::

<details>
<summary>View Transcript (1 paragraphs)</summary>

**[00:00]** [00:00]
                                    In this video, we are going to go over the new perspective session event called page startup. It is located in the session events of perspective page startup. This particular script is fired whenever a new page is opened up in your web browser, either in a new tab or a new window. It can also be fired when a current page is refreshed by reloading the window in your browser. It will not run when navigating to different pages within the same tab. However, it will not run when navigating to different pages within the same window or tab. The event has a couple of arguments available to us. You'll notice we have a page object, as well as page ID and path properties. I have used these properties to create a very simple script, which simply prints them out to the console. It is important to note that to access the properties of the page object, you must use the props keyword first. So page.props.path to access that path property. I have also put together a simple set of views. Two of them are being used for two different pages and simply say this is page one, and this is page two. My third view is being used as a docked view and will provide some ways to navigate. Let's go ahead and launch my session. If I open the console by hitting the F12 key, you can see that my print did work on startup, giving me the page ID of this tab, as well as the path of the current page. If you use the navigation links on the left-hand side here it will actually open up a new tab. And if I again open up my console, I can see that again, my script ran. You will notice that while my page path is the same between the two tabs, my page ID is different, signifying that this is a new page that I have created. This will work regardless of which page I open to. The page path is now my new path, but the page ID is also different from the other pages that I've opened. Lastly, it is important to remember that navigating between pages within the same tab or window will not trigger this script to run. For example, if I switch over to page one within this same tab, you'll notice my script does not run again, regardless of which page I navigate to. I can, however, force the script to run by reloading the page. Now I have a new page path, because I am on page one, but my page ID is the same as it was before.

</details>

---

### 7. 8.1.0 - Restricting Gateway Access Video at Inductive University

:::tip Video Link
Watch the video: [8.1.0 - Restricting Gateway Access Video at Inductive University](https://inductiveuniversity.com/videos/810---restricting-gateway-access/8.1)
:::

<details>
<summary>View Transcript (1 paragraphs)</summary>

**[00:00]** [00:00]
                                    In this lesson, we'll discuss how we can secure our gateway webpage from unwanted access. Now, before we get started it's worth noting that the strongest form of security we have is network security, so keeping unwanted users from accessing the gateway webpage at all might be a good start. But in terms of restricting access within your gateways network, there are some simple steps we can take to control who can log in to different sections of the gateway webpage. To get started, I'm on my gateway webpage here and I just need to go into the config section of the webpage, then find the security section, and select general. The first thing to know about securing the gateway webpage is that logging into the gateway webpage is done against an identity provider, so the most important property in here will be the system identity provider setting. The identity provider we choose will be used for the gateway webpage, as well as the designer, if our designer authentication strategy is set to identity provider. So, with an identity provider specified, the only other piece here is setting required security levels for accessing the gateway config section, the status page, and potentially the homepage, too. Entering security levels here will restrict those areas of the gateway or designer to users that have been granted these specified levels. When we specify these levels, it's important that we use the full security level path and we can use commas to specify multiple security levels. If we do, we have the ability to choose between requiring all of them or just one of them. Here we're seeing effectively the default values for everything, but breaking out different features into different levels could be a good idea. For example, allowing managers to access the status page, where they can see details about the running gateway, but not the config page, where they can potentially break something important, might be a good idea. It's also worth keeping in mind that someone with access to the config page could come in and change all these settings, so generally speaking, the config page should be the most locked down part of your gateway. In any case, however you'd like to organize or restrict access to your gateway, this security page is here to help.

</details>

---

### 8. 8.1.0 - Vision Client Authentication Strategy Video at Inductive University

:::tip Video Link
Watch the video: [8.1.0 - Vision Client Authentication Strategy Video at Inductive University](https://inductiveuniversity.com/videos/810---vision-client-authentication-strategy/8.1)
:::

<details>
<summary>View Transcript (1 paragraphs)</summary>

**[00:00]** [00:00]
                                    In this video, we are going to take a look at the new authentication option for Vision clients. Normally, when you would open up a Vision client, you would log in using a user from a user source. Let's remind ourselves what that looks like. I'll go into my tools menu and launch my project. Let me pull it over onto this screen and we're greeted with the normal username password log in where we would type in our credentials and it would log us into the project. However, with Ignition version 8.1, there is now a new way to log into clients, and that is to use an identity provider. To have the Vision client use the identity provider on log in, we will need to go to the project properties. If we navigate to the Vision log in section, you'll notice at the top there is an authentication strategy and it is currently set to classic. Classic will use a user source for authentication. But I can change this to be identity provider, which will use an identity provider for authentication within a Vision client instead. I'll go ahead and hit okay, save my project, and launch it again. Pull it over onto this screen again, and now you can see we're no longer asked for a username and password. Instead, we're given a login button which will take us to our web browser where we can log in using an identity provider. You can see here that a new tab in my web browser opened up and it has allowed me to log in using my identity provider. Once I've logged in, it lets me know I'm good to go and I can close this browser tab and my Vision client will already be logged in.

</details>

---

### 9. 8.1.0 - Perspective Symbols Video at Inductive University

:::tip Video Link
Watch the video: [8.1.0 - Perspective Symbols Video at Inductive University](https://inductiveuniversity.com/videos/810---perspective-symbols/8.1)
:::

<details>
<summary>View Transcript (1 paragraphs)</summary>

**[00:00]** [00:00]
                                    In this video, we are going to take a look at the perspective symbols. The perspective symbols are fully-immersive graphical components that are found in the Perspective Component pallet under the Symbols section. Pulling inspiration from both the display components as well as SVGs, the symbols offer the ability to display various values while also containing a graphical element. With each symbol, it contains properties that allow you to not just modify the component, but modify the graphic within. For example, while I can determine what the label and value of this pump says as well as the location of the text, I can also change the variant of the pump to a vacuum pump, and it will change the graphic that represents it. In addition, each symbol has a state property, which when changed, will alter the animation of the symbol. For example, if I change this state property of the pump to running, we can see that the pump begins flashing to indicate that is currently running. The animation on each graphic differs depending on the symbol that you've used. For example, on the vessel component, if I were to change the state property to running, we can see that the blades start mixing the contents within.

</details>

---

## Additional Resources

- [Inductive University](https://inductiveuniversity.com/)
- [Ignition Documentation](https://docs.inductiveautomation.com/)
- [Ignition Downloads](https://inductiveautomation.com/downloads/)
